<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.4//EN" 
	"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.4/docbookx.dtd">
<!-- jedit :wrap=hard:maxLineLen=76: -->
<book>
  <bookinfo>
    <date>2006-05-02</date>
    <title>Boxi</title>
    <subtitle>Friendly Internet Backup Software</subtitle>
    <authorgroup>
      <author>
        <firstname>Chris</firstname>
        <surname>Wilson</surname>
      </author>
    </authorgroup>
    <copyright>
      <year>2006</year>
      <holder>Chris Wilson</holder>
    </copyright>
    <legalnotice>
      <para>Published under the 
	<ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html">GNU 
	Free Documentation License</ulink>.</para>
    </legalnotice>
  </bookinfo>
  <toc></toc>
  <chapter id="intro">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <para>This book describes <application>Boxi</application>, a software 
	program that helps you to back up your important
        files over the Internet, securely and efficiently.</para>
    <sect1>
      <title>About this book</title>
      <para>The book explains how to obtain, install, configure and use
	<application>Boxi</application>. The book is intended for ordinary
	computer users. If you don't understand anything, please contact
	me (the author) so that I can fix it.</para>
      <para>If you have any comments or suggestions about 
	<application>Boxi</application> or this book, please
        <ulink url="http://boxi.sourceforge.net/contact.html">contact 
        us</ulink>.</para>
    </sect1>
    <sect1>
      <title>About Boxi and Box Backup</title>
      <para>
        <application>Boxi</application> is a graphical program that 
	allows you to back up your files across the Internet 
	(or a local network) to a <application>Box Backup</application>
	server.</para>
      <para>
        <application>Box Backup</application> is a software program 
	for systems administrators to back up their files efficiently 
	and securely across the Internet.</para>
      <para>
        <application>Boxi</application> is fully compatible with 
	<application>Box Backup</application>, the command-line backup
	tool, but <application>Boxi</application> is designed to be as 
	easy to use as possible.</para>
      <para>
        <application>Boxi</application> uses the same configuration 
	files as <application>Box Backup</application>, to make it
	easy to switch between the two.</para>
      <para>
        <application>Boxi</application> supports the same security 
	and efficiency as <application>Box Backup</application>,
	and also requires a server where your backups will be stored,
	usually on the Internet.</para>
    </sect1>
    <sect1>
      <title>Storage</title>
      <para>
        <application>Boxi</application> stores your data on a server, 
	rather than on a disk or tape like a conventional backup system.
	This is very convenient because you don't have to do anything at all
	to back up your data. It just happens automatically in the background.
      </para>
      <para>You can run your own server, but this requires considerable
	technical skill, and <application>Boxi</application> is designed for
	ordinary users. We expect that you will want to get an agreement with
	a server operator, to use the bandwidth and disk space of their server 
	for your backups.</para>
      <para>The server would normally be connected somewhere else on the 
	Internet, so that if your computer catches fire, your data
	stays cool. This means that you have a very wide choice of potential
	server operators, so you should be able to get a good deal. If your
	requirements are low, you can probably find a friend who has a
	server and will let you use it for your backups.</para>
    </sect1>
    <sect1>
      <title>Security</title>
      <para>
        <application>Box Backup</application> is secure because it 
	encrypts your files before sending them to the server. Nobody, 
	not even the server operator, can read your files.</para>
      <warning>
        <title>Keep your keys safe</title>
        <para>
	Your files on the server are encrypted with a strong 
	encryption key, which is stored in a file. If you lose this key,
	then there is absolutely no way to access your files, and your
	backups are useless. You <emphasis>must</emphasis> keep extra 
	copies of the key file safe places, such as in the trust of friends.
	</para>
      </warning>
    </sect1>
    <sect1>
      <title>Efficiency</title>
      <para>
        <application>Box Backup</application> is efficient because 
	it doesn't upload files which have not changed. You can back up 
	gigabytes of data over a standard ADSL internet connection to a 
	server hosted somewhere on the Internet.</para>
    </sect1>
    <sect1>
      <title>License</title>
      <para>
        <application>Boxi</application> is 
	<ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">free
	software</ulink>, which means that you can download it and use
	it for free. This includes the source code, which guarantees
	your freedom to customise the software, or pay others to do so,
	now and forever.</para>
      <para>In return, your only obligation is that if you do customise it,
	and distribute your changes or any work based on 
	<application>Boxi</application>, you must provide the full source code,
	to guarantee the same rights to others that you yourself received.
	</para>
      <para>If you do not intend to customise Boxi, this will not affect you.
	</para>
      <para>This book is released under the 
	<ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html">GNU 
	Free Documentation License</ulink>, which means that you can 
	distribute copies freely as long as they are complete copies, and 
	you do not modify them in any way. To distribute this book in any 
	other fashion, please      
        <ulink url="http://boxi.sourceforge.net/contact.html">contact 
        us</ulink> for permission.</para>
    </sect1>
  </chapter>
  <chapter id="install">
    <title>Installation</title>
    <para>This chapter describes how to install <application>Boxi</application>
      on your computer.</para>
    <para>Most computers are unfortunately not supplied with 
      <application>Boxi</application> already installed. Therefore, you will
      have to download and install it yourself.</para>
    <para>The easiest way to install <application>Boxi</application> is to
      download a pre-compiled version for your computer. The available
      pre-compiled versions are listed on the <ulink
          url="http://boxi.sourceforge.net">Boxi website</ulink>. Typically they
      would include the latest versions of <application>Boxi</application> for
      Windows, Fedora Linux and Ubuntu Linux, since these are the versions that
      us developers have on our computers. Other people may contribute builds 
      for different operating systems from time to time, but these may not be 
      quite as recent.</para>
    <para>If the latest version of <application>Boxi</application> is not
      available for your computer, but an older version is available, then you
      should check the list of changes on the website to determine whether any
      important bugs have been fixed since that older version was released. If
      so, you might like to build a new version of Boxi yourself, or request
      that we build one for you, or find someone else who can do it for
      you.</para>
    <para>Please decide whether you want to use a pre-compiled version, or 
      compile one yourself, before proceeding with the installation. If in
      doubt, please 
      <ulink url="http://boxi.sourceforge.net/contact.html">contact 
      us</ulink>.
.</para>
    <sect1>
      <title>Installing a Pre-Compiled Version</title>
      <para>Pre-compiled versions should be easy to install. All versions are
        distributed as a single file which you will need to download from our
        <ulink url="http://boxi.sourceforge.net">website</ulink>. We strongly 
        recommend that you download an official copy from our website, rather 
        than using any other version you might find on the Internet, to
        protect yourself from potentially corrupt or dangerous versions that 
        you might find online.</para>
      <sect2>
        <title>Microsoft Windows</title>
        <para>
          <application>Windows</application> versions are distributed in a
          <application>ZIP</application> file, which newer versions of
          <application>Windows</application> (XP and above) 
          can handle automatically. For older versions, you will need to 
          download a program like 
          <ulink url="http://www.7-zip.org">7-Zip</ulink> to decompress it. 
          We hope to provide a proper installer soon, which would allow you to
          install <application>Boxi</application> just by double-clicking on
          it.</para>
        <para>To install, just double-click on the downloaded file, drag out the
          <filename>Boxi</filename> folder from inside it, and drop it somewhere
          convenient, for example on your desktop, or in your <filename>Program
          Files</filename> folder. Enter the folder, and if required, drag the
          <filename>Boxi</filename> program icon to your desktop or start menu,
          to help you start Boxi easily.</para>
        <para>Once you have configured Boxi, you can set it to run as a Windows
          service, which means that it will start automatically when you switch
          on your computer.</para>
      </sect2>
      <sect2>
        <title>Linux</title>
        <para>Most Linux systems use a <application>package manager</application>
        to manage installed software. It's better to install a package that's
        compatible with your package manager, rather than a binary 
        <application>tar</application> file, so that you can remove or upgrade
        <application>Boxi</application> easily using the package manager.</para>
        <sect3>
          <title>RPM systems (Red Hat, Fedora, SuSE, Mandriva)</title>
          <para>First, download an <application>RPM</application> package for
            your system, or one that seems likely to be compatible with it.
            Downloading the wrong version will not cause any harm, but the 
            package may not install, or may not run once installed, so if in 
            doubt, download a few different versions and try them.</para>
          <para>Use the <application>rpm</application> command to install the
            package:</para>
          <synopsis>rpm -ivh boxi-xxx.rpm</synopsis>
          <para>The output should be something like:</para>
          <screen>Preparing... ####################### [100%]
boxi         ####################### [100%]</screen>
          <para>If the output indicates that some requirements are missing, you
            may be able to use your distribution's package management system to
            install them. If not, please try a different package. If you can't
            find one that works, please 
            <ulink url="http://boxi.sourceforge.net/contact.html">contact 
            us</ulink>.
            </para>
          <para>Once the package is installed, you should be able to start 
            <application>Boxi</application> just by running the command:
            </para>
          <synopsis>boxi</synopsis>
          <para>If this fails for any reason, please  
            <ulink url="http://boxi.sourceforge.net/contact.html">contact 
            us</ulink>.</para>
          <para>If you already have an older version of 
            <application>Boxi</application> installed, you may need to 
            remove it first. The <application>RPM</application> package 
            manager should complain and refuse to install another version 
            if one is already installed. You can remove an existing package
            using the command:</para>
          <synopsis>rpm -ev package-name</synopsis>
        </sect3>
        <sect3>
          <title>Debian and Ubuntu systems</title>
          <para>
            <application>Debian</application> systems use the Debian
            package manager <application>dpkg</application> to install and 
            remove packages. The procedure is similar to the one described 
            for <application>RPM</application> packages above, but the 
            command to install a package is:</para>
          <synopsis>dpkg -i boxi-xxx.deb</synopsis>
          <para>And to remove a package:</para>
          <synopsis>dpkg -e boxi</synopsis>
        </sect3>
      </sect2>
    </sect1>
    <sect1>
      <title>Building from Source</title>
      <para>The other way to install Boxi is to download and compile the
      source code. You will probably want to do this if:</para>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>No pre-compiled version of <application>Boxi</application>
          is available for your system;</listitem>
        <listitem>The latest available pre-compiled version is too old;
          </listitem>
        <listitem>You want to inspect or modify the source code;</listitem>
        <listitem>You want to participate in <application>Boxi</application>
          development.</listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <para>You will need a number of software tools installed on your
        computer before you can build Boxi.</para>
      <sect2>
        <title>Cygwin</title>
        <para>Windows users will need a number of Unix tools installed on
          their system in order to compile <application>Boxi</application>.
          The easiest way to get these tools is to install
          <application>Cygwin</application> by Cygnus Solutions. Unix users 
          do not need to install <application>Cygwin</application>.</para>
        <para><application>Boxi</application> does not depend on 
          <application>Cygwin</application> once compiled, and can easily 
          be installed on computers without 
          <application>Cygwin</application>, but the tools are an
          important part of the compilation process.</para>
        <para>To install <application>Cygwin</application>, download and run
          the <ulink url="http://www.cygwin.com/setup.exe">Cygwin 
          installer</ulink>. As part of the installation
          process, you will need to select some packages to install. 
          <!-- The
          list of available packages is quite large, and they are divided
          into sections. The section name is given as a heading below, to
          help you find the package. --></para>
        <para>You should select at least the following packages:</para>
        <itemizedlist>
          <listitem>gcc-mingw</listitem>
          <listitem>libstdc++-devel</listitem>
          <listitem>perl</listitem>
          <listitem>patchutils</listitem>
          <listitem>openssl-devel</listitem>
          <listitem>libncurses-devel</listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </sect2>
      <sect2>
        <title>C++ Compiler</title>
        <para>
          <application>Boxi</application> is normally compiled with the
          free software compiler 
          <ulink url="http://directory.fsf.org/devel/compilers/gcc.html">
          <application>GCC</application>
          </ulink>, which is supplied with
          most Linux distributions. <application>Windows</application>
          users should install <application>MinGW</application> through 
          <application>Cygwin</application>, as above, and ignore this 
          step.</para>
        <para>It should be possible to compile Boxi with other C++
          compilers, but most compilers (including the above) have quirks or
          non-standard behaviours, so you should expect to have some
          problems, and may need to modify the source code to make it work.
          If you use a different compiler, please 
          <ulink url="http://boxi.sourceforge.net/contact.html">contact 
          us</ulink> to let us know how it went.</para>
      </sect2>
      <sect2>
        <title>Perl</title>
        <para><application>Boxi</application> depends on Box Backup, which
          in turn requires <application>Perl</application> to build some 
          of the libraries.</para>
        <para>Most Linux and Unix-like systems will be supplied with a 
          version of Perl, or have one easily available. On
          <application>Debian</application>-based systems (including 
          <application>Ubuntu</application>), the following command should
          install <application>Perl</application>:</para>
        <synopsis>apt-get install perl</synopsis>
        <para>Users of other distributions, please see your distribution 
          documentation for details.</para>
      </sect2>
    
        </chapter>
      </book>
